Whats the basis of electrical and circuit diagrams?
I’m going to start off by saying that electricity is the ordered flow of electrons. When I say ordered, I mean we can quite literally track not just the direction but the amount of electrons moving in a particular path by using wires (to direct the flow) and electronic components (the change the flow in one way or another) and by actually getting the electrons moving (by adding a clear and measurable power supply). Without adding a power supply the electrons won’t move in any path unless they are pressured to do so (very rarely). Electrons are found naturally everywhere in our environment, they are one of the building blocks of an atom which are the building blocks of everything around us, including us. However they are extremely random because they will go anywhere naturally, not in any particular direction or path, they simple fly out their atom, if they are freely moving and not bound to it, and go in whatever direction in the 3D space. So we use a wire which has these many freely moving electrons so we are guaranteed to get some value reading on our machines that measure electron activity. But they won’t naturally move until we force them somehow, we won’t get a shock or feel anything if we just touch a simple copper wire on both ends that isn’t connected to anything. We force they by creating pressure. As we know, electrons are negatively charged, so they repel other negatively charged particles and attract positively charged particles. We use this quality of theirs, the repulsion, to move them. We create an area of highly packed negative electrons and connect it to an area of much less densely packed electrons, if we connect the highly packed area to one side of the copper wire, we are sure to get an electric shock if we touch the other side of the electric wire. However, if we now connect the otherwise of the electric wire to the less densely packed area then the electrons within the wire will start moving, specifically start moving in the wire which we can now see. Now we know where the electrons are flowing and in which direction, from the highly packed area to the much less densely area, through the entire wire. If we use a multimeter (a device the measure the activity of electrons at any point we want) and connect each side to the sides of the wire, we can see the amount of electrons moving in that area per second (which is the current, Colombs per second and a Colombs about 6.18*10^18 electrons). And if we select ok the multimeter the option to see the voltage, we’ll notice that the voltage is the pressure between the wire, and since we chose a copper wire which has very little resistance (resistance is the quality of reducing or stoping electron flow) we notice that the voltage is just the difference between the value of the highly dense area by the less dense area. If we chose a different type of wire, and we performed the same experiment, we would get different values for the voltage, because at one point the pressure was very high but after going through the wire, it decreased exponentially (which means now there aren’t as much electrons moving or going as fast as before) so the pressure at the other end of the wire drops dramatically.
